Add Window Placement API article (#3833)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/multi-screen-window-placement/index.md

---
title: Managing Several Displays with the Multi-Screen Window Placement API
subhead: Get information about connected displays and position windows relative to those displays.
authors:
  - thomassteiner
description:
  The Multi-Screen Window Placement API allows you to enumerate the displays connected to your
  machine and to place windows on specific screens.
date: 2020-09-03
# updated: 2020-09-03
tags:
  - blog
  - capabilities
hero: hero.jpg
alt: Simulated trading desk showing multiple fake cryptocurrencies and their price charts.
origin_trial:
  url: https://developers.chrome.com/origintrials/#/view_trial/1411878483180650497
---

{% Aside %} The Multi-Screen Window Placement API is part of the

> [capabilities project](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/capabilities) and is currently in

Reviewer: I thought we use https://web.dev/fugu-status/ for the "capabilities project" link. See https://web.dev/serial/ for instance

Author: This came straight from our template. I have updated the template accordingly now.

Examples of sites that may use this API include:

- Multi-window graphics editors à la
  [Gimp](https://www.gimp.org/release-notes/gimp-2.8.html#single-window-mode) can place various
  editing tools in accurately positioned windows.
- Virtual trading desks can show market trends in multiple windows that all can also be viewed in
  fullscreen mode.
- Slideshow apps can show speaker notes on the internal primary screen and the presentation on an
  external projector.

## Current status {: #status }

<div class="w-table-wrapper">

| Step                                     | Status                   |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| 1. Create explainer                      | [Complete][explainer]    |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification | [Complete][spec]         |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [In progress](#feedback) |
| **4. Origin trial**                      | **[In progress][ot]**    |
| 5. Launch                                | Not started              |

</div>

## How to use the Multi-Screen Window Placement API {: #use }

### Enabling via chrome://flags

> To experiment with the Multi-Screen Window Placement API locally, without an origin trial token,

Reviewer: Quick question. Does it work on Android or is it "working" only for desktop?

Author: I was surprised, too, but this will work [[e]verywhere except WebView](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/C6xw8i1ZIdE/m/TJsr0zXxBwAJ#:~:text=The%20overall%20API%20will%20be%20exposed%20everywhere%20except%20WebView).

enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Enabling support during the origin trial phase

Starting in Chrome&nbsp;86, the Multi-Screen Window Placement API will be available as an origin

> trial in Chrome. The origin trial is expected to end in Chrome&nbsp;88.

Reviewer: The pattern we use now seems to use the date as well to give people more information.

> The origin trial is expected to end just before Chrome 89 moves to stable in February 2021.

Author: Likewise added to the template.

screen. The info from `window.screen` purely covers the built-in screen, but not the iPad screen
attached via Sidecar. The reported `width` of the built-in screen was `1680` pixels, so moving to
`2500` pixels *might* work to shift the window over to the iPad, since _I_ happen to know that it is
located on the right of my MacBook Air. How to do this in the general case? Turns out, there is a
better way than guessing, which is paved by the Multi-Screen Window Placement API.

### Feature detection

To check if the Multi-Screen Window Placement API is supported, use:

```js
if ("getScreens" in window) {
  // The Multi-Screen Window Placement API is supported.
}
```

### The `window-placement` permission

Before I can use the Multi-Screen Window Placement API, I must ask the user for permission to do so.
The new `window-placement` permission can be queried with the
[Permissions API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Permissions_API) like so:

```js
let granted = false;
try {
  const { state } = await navigator.permissions.query({ name: "window-placement" });
  granted = state === "granted";
} catch {
  // Nothing.
}
```

> The browser can choose to show the permission prompt dynamically upon the first attempt to use any

Reviewer: It is not clear in the rest of the article when user is prompted. I assume it us when `getScreens` is called, but maybe also `isMultiScreen`.

Author: Still [up for debate](https://webscreens.github.io/window-placement/#issue-c601b517:~:text=Permission%20check%20for%20above%3F,-partial).

  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 24
  primary: false
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1366
*/
```

Note how the value of `left` for the iPad starts at `1680`, which is exactly the `width` of the
built-in display. This allows me to determine exactly how the screens are arranged logically (next
to each other, on top of each other, etc.). There is also data now for each screen to show whether
it is an `internal` one and whether it is a `primary` one. Both also have an `id`, which, if
persisted across browser sessions, allows for window arrangements to be restored exactly.

### The `onscreenschange` event

The only thing missing now is a way to detect when my screen setup changes. A new event
`onscreenschange` (plural "screens") does exactly that: it fires whenever the screen constellation
is modified. This can happen when the resolution of one of the connected screens changes or when a
new or an existing screen is (physically or virtually in the case of Sidecar) plugged or unplugged.

```js
console.log("Before:", await window.getScreens());
window.addEventListener("screenschange", async () => {
  console.log("After:", await window.getScreens());
});
```

> Note that you need to look up the new screen details asynchronously, the `screenschange` event

Reviewer: Quick question: Is this a spec issue?

Author: It is: https://github.com/webscreens/window-placement/issues/28.

| Step                                     | Status                   |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| 1. Create explainer                      | [Complete][explainer]    |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification | [Complete][spec]         |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [In progress](#feedback) |
| **4. Origin trial**                      | **[In progress][ot]**    |
| 5. Launch                                | Not started              |

</div>

## How to use the Multi-Screen Window Placement API {: #use }

### Enabling via chrome://flags

To experiment with the Multi-Screen Window Placement API locally, without an origin trial token,
enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Enabling support during the origin trial phase

Starting in Chrome&nbsp;86, the Multi-Screen Window Placement API will be available as an origin
trial in Chrome. The origin trial is expected to end in Chrome&nbsp;88 (February&nbsp;24, 2021).

{% include 'content/origin-trials.njk' %}

### Register for the origin trial {: #register-for-ot }

{% include 'content/origin-trial-register.njk' %}

> ### The problem: `Window.open()` is unaware of additional screens
> 
> You can open windows with the time-tested
> [`Window.open()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open) method. While some

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### The problem

The time-tested approach to controlling windows,
[`Window.open()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open)
is unaware of additional screens
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe more like this. I'm sorry I didn't think of it in the first review.

I think it's good to keep title's short for small screens, when possible.

  availWidth: 1680
  colorDepth: 30
  height: 1050
  id: "0"
  internal: true
  left: 0
  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 30
  primary: true
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1680

  Screen 2 (iPad):
  availHeight: 1001
  availLeft: 1680
  availTop: 23
  availWidth: 1366
  colorDepth: 24
  height: 1024
  id: "1"
  internal: false
  left: 1680
  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 24
  primary: false
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1366
*/
```

Note how the value of `left` for the iPad starts at `1680`, which is exactly the `width` of the
built-in display. This allows me to determine exactly how the screens are arranged logically (next
to each other, on top of each other, etc.). There is also data now for each screen to show whether
it is an `internal` one and whether it is a `primary` one. Both also have an `id`, which, if
persisted across browser sessions, allows for window arrangements to be restored.

### The `onscreenschange` event

The only thing missing now is a way to detect when my screen setup changes. A new event,
`onscreenschange` (note: plural "screens"), does exactly that: it fires whenever the screen constellation

> is modified. This can happen when the resolution of one of the connected screens changes or when a

Reviewer 2: Calling out that it is plural is a good idea, but I think it needs to be a bit more obvious. Because the new parenthetical interrupts the flow of the paragraph, I changed the beginning of the next sentence to call back more strongly to the previous thought.

> is modified. This can happen when the resolution of one of the connected screens changes or when a

Author: Applied. Much better now!

```js
try {
  const primaryScreen = (await getScreens()).filter((screen) => screen.primary)[0];
  await document.body.requestFullscreen({ screen: primaryScreen });
} catch (err) {
  console.error(err.name, err.message);
}
```

### Polyfill

It is not possible to polyfill the Multi-Screen Window Placement API, but you
can shim its shape so you can code exclusively against the new API:

```js
if (!("getScreens" in window)) {
  // Returning a one-element array with the current screen,
  // noting that there might be more.
  window.getScreens = async () => [window.screen];
  // Returning `false`, noting that this might be a lie.
  window.isMultiScreen = async () => false;
}
```

The other aspects of the API—the `onscreenschange` event and the `screen` property of the
`FullscreenOptions`—would simply never fire or silently be ignored respectively by non-supporting
browsers.

## Demo

If you are anything like me, you keep a close eye on the development of the various cryptocurrencies.
(In reality I very much do not, but, for the sake of this article, just assume I do.) To
keep track of the cryptocurrencies that I own, I have developed a web app that allows me to watch

> the markets in all life situations, like from the comfort of my bed, where I have a decent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the markets in all life situations, such as from the comfort of my bed, where I have a decent
```

Reviewer 2: I know this is correcting my own requested change. Please forgive me. I was tired when I did this.

single-screen setup.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="./tv.jpg" alt="Massive TV screen at the end of a bed with the author's legs partly visible. On the screen, a fake crypto currency trading desk. ">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Relaxing and watching the markets.</figcaption>
</figure>

This being about crypto, the markets can get hectic at any time. Should this happen, I can quickly
move over to my desk where I have a multi-screen setup. I can click on any currency's window
and quickly see the full details in a fullscreen view on the opposite screen. Below is a recent
photo of me taken during the last [YCY bloodbath](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ).

> It caught me completely off-guard and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It caught me completely off-guard and left me
```

> [with hands on my face](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/gavon/brokers-with-hands-on-their-faces).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[with my hands on my face](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/gavon/brokers-with-hands-on-their-faces).
```

information about the second screen using `Window.getScreens()`. It returns a promise
that resolves with an array of `Screen` objects. On my MacBook Air 13 with a connected iPad, this
returns an array of two `Screen` objects:

```js
await window.getScreens();
/* Output from my MacBook Air 13″ with the iPad attached:
  Screen 1 (built-in display):
  availHeight: 975
  availLeft: 0
  availTop: 23
  availWidth: 1680
  colorDepth: 30
  height: 1050
  id: "0"
  internal: true
  left: 0
  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 30
  primary: true
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1680

  Screen 2 (iPad):
  availHeight: 1001
  availLeft: 1680
  availTop: 23
  availWidth: 1366
  colorDepth: 24
  height: 1024
  id: "1"
  internal: false
  left: 1680
  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 24
  primary: false
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1366
*/
```

Note how the value of `left` for the iPad starts at `1680`, which is exactly the `width` of the
built-in display. This allows me to determine exactly how the screens are arranged logically (next
to each other, on top of each other, etc.). There is also data now for each screen to show whether

> it is an `internal` one and whether it is a `primary` one. Both also have an `id`, which, if

Author: ```suggestion
it is an `internal` one and whether it is a `primary` one.
Note that the built-in screen
[is not necessarily the primary screen](https://osxdaily.com/2010/04/27/set-the-primary-display-mac/#:~:text=Click%20on%20the%20Display%20icon,primary%20display%20for%20your%20Mac).
Both also have an `id`, which, if
```

---

> title: Managing Several Displays with the Multi-Screen Window Placement API

Author: ```suggestion
title: Managing several displays with the Multi-Screen Window Placement API
```

> title: Managing Several Displays with the Multi-Screen Window Placement API

Author: Done.

| Step                                     | Status                   |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| 1. Create explainer                      | [Complete][explainer]    |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification | [Complete][spec]         |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design   | [In progress](#feedback) |
| **4. Origin trial**                      | **[In progress][ot]**    |
| 5. Launch                                | Not started              |

</div>

## How to use the Multi-Screen Window Placement API {: #use }

### Enabling via chrome://flags

To experiment with the Multi-Screen Window Placement API locally, without an origin trial token,
enable the `#enable-experimental-web-platform-features` flag in `chrome://flags`.

### Enabling support during the origin trial phase

Starting in Chrome&nbsp;86, the Multi-Screen Window Placement API will be available as an origin
trial in Chrome. The origin trial is expected to end in Chrome&nbsp;88 (February&nbsp;24, 2021).

{% include 'content/origin-trials.njk' %}

### Register for the origin trial {: #register-for-ot }

{% include 'content/origin-trial-register.njk' %}

> ### The problem

Author: I've modified the heading to directly point out the issue.

[size](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open#Size:~:text=well.-,Size) as
`width` and `height` (or `innerWidth` and `innerHeight` respectively). For example, to open a
400×300 window at 50 pixels from the left and 50 pixels from the top, this is the code that you
could use:

```js
const popup = window.open(
  "https://example.com/",
  "My Popup",
  "left=50,top=50,width=400,height=300"
);
```

You can get information about the current screen by looking at the
[`window.screen`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/screen) property, which
returns a [`Screen`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Screen) object. This is the
output on my MacBook Air 13″:

```js
window.screen;
/* Output from my MacBook Air 13″:
  availHeight: 975
  availLeft: 0
  availTop: 23
  availWidth: 1680
  colorDepth: 30
  height: 1050
  id: ""
  internal: false
  left: 0
  orientation: ScreenOrientation {angle: 0, type: "landscape-primary", onchange: null}
  pixelDepth: 30
  primary: false
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1680
*/
```

Like most people working in tech, I have had to arrange myself with the new work reality and install

> my personal home office. Mine looks like on the photo below (if you are interested, you can read the

Author: This sounds better, yes.

information about the second screen via the new `Window.getScreens()` method. It returns a promise
that resolves with an array of `Screen` objects. On my MacBook Air 13 with a connected iPad, this
returns an array of two `Screen` objects:

```js
await window.getScreens();
/* Output from my MacBook Air 13″ with the iPad attached:
  Screen 1 (built-in display):
  availHeight: 975
  availLeft: 0
  availTop: 23
  availWidth: 1680
  colorDepth: 30
  height: 1050
  id: "0"
  internal: true
  left: 0
  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 30
  primary: true
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1680

  Screen 2 (iPad):
  availHeight: 1001
  availLeft: 1680
  availTop: 23
  availWidth: 1366
  colorDepth: 24
  height: 1024
  id: "1"
  internal: false
  left: 1680
  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 24
  primary: false
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1366
*/
```

Note how the value of `left` for the iPad starts at `1680`, which is exactly the `width` of the
built-in display. This allows me to determine exactly how the screens are arranged logically (next
to each other, on top of each other, etc.). There is also data now for each screen to show whether

> it is an `internal` one and whether it is a `primary` one. Both also have an `id`, which, if

Author: The primary screen can also be [the external one](https://osxdaily.com/2010/04/27/set-the-primary-display-mac/#:~:text=Click%20on%20the%20Display%20icon,primary%20display%20for%20your%20Mac).

> it is an `internal` one and whether it is a `primary` one. Both also have an `id`, which, if

Reviewer 2: Web developers are unlikely to know this since they've never had a way to deal with multiple screens. Can you please add some information about this?

persisted across browser sessions, allows for window arrangements to be restored exactly.

### The `onscreenschange` event

The only thing missing now is a way to detect when my screen setup changes. A new event

> `onscreenschange` (plural "screens") does exactly that: it fires whenever the screen constellation

Author: ```suggestion
`onscreenschange` (note: plural "screens"), does exactly that: it fires whenever the screen constellation
```

> `onscreenschange` (plural "screens") does exactly that: it fires whenever the screen constellation

Author: It's easy to misread on-screens-change (plural) as on-screen-change (singular), dashes added to separate words for visibility. There's even an issue open for this: https://github.com/webscreens/window-placement/issues/12.

is modified. This can happen when the resolution of one of the connected screens changes or when a
new or an existing screen is (physically or virtually in the case of Sidecar) plugged or unplugged.

```js
console.log("Before:", await window.getScreens());
window.addEventListener("screenschange", async () => {
  console.log("After:", await window.getScreens());
});
```

Note that you need to look up the new screen details asynchronously, the `screenschange` event

> itself does not provide this data
> (see
> [Issue&nbsp;28](https://github.com/webscreens/window-placement/issues/28)
> for details).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
itself does not provide this data. [This may change in the
future](https://github.com/webscreens/window-placement/issues/28). For now you
can look up the screen details by calling `window.getScreens()` as shown below.

```js
window.addEventListener('screenschange', async (e) => {
  console.log('I am there, but mostly useless', e);
  const details = await window.getScreens();
});
```

```

Reviewer 2: I didn't leave off the closing back ticks. GitHub is swallowing them. You'll need to add them to the source.

### New fullscreen options

> Up until now, you could request elements be displayed in fullscreen mode via the aptly named

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Until now, you could request that elements be displayed in fullscreen mode via the aptly named
```

[`requestFullScreen()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/requestFullscreen)
method. The method takes an `options` parameter where you can pass

> [`FullscreenOptions`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FullscreenOptions). Up until
> now, the only option was

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`FullscreenOptions`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FullscreenOptions). So far, it's only property has been
```

[`navigationUI`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FullscreenOptions/navigationUI).
The Multi-Screen Window Placement API adds a new `screen` property that allows you to determine

> which screen to start the fullscreen view on, for example, the primary screen:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which screen to start the fullscreen view on. For example, if you want to make the primary screen fullscreen:
```

```js
try {
  const primaryScreen = (await getScreens()).filter((screen) => screen.primary)[0];
  await document.body.requestFullscreen({ screen: primaryScreen });
} catch (err) {
  console.error(err.name, err.message);
}
```

### Polyfill

> It is not possible to polyfill the functionality of the Multi-Screen Window Placement API, but you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is not possible to polyfill the Multi-Screen Window Placement API, but you
```

can shim its shape so you can code exclusively against the new API:

```js
if (!("getScreens" in window)) {
  // Returning a one-element array with the current screen,
  // noting that there might be more.
  window.getScreens = async () => [window.screen];
  // Returning `false`, noting that this might be a lie.
  window.isMultiScreen = async () => false;
}
```

> The other aspects of the API (the `onscreenschange` event and the `screen` property of the
> `FullscreenOptions`) would simply never fire or silently be ignored respectively by non-supporting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The other aspects of the API&mdash;the `onscreenschange` event and the `screen` property of the
`FullscreenOptions`&mdash;would simply never fire or silently be ignored respectively by non-supporting
```

browsers.

## Demo

> If you are anything like me, you keep a close eye on the development of the various cryptocurrencies
> (in reality I very much do not, but, for the sake of this article, just assume I did). In order to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are anything like me, you keep a close eye on the development of the various cryptocurrencies.
(In reality I very much do not, but, for the sake of this article, just assume I do.) To
```

keep track of the cryptocurrencies that I own, I have developed a web app that allows me to watch

> the markets in all life situations, for example, from the comfort of my bed, where I have a decent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the markets in all life situations, from the comfort of my bed, where I have a decent
```

single-screen setup.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img src="./tv.jpg" alt="Massive TV screen at the end of a bed with the author's legs partly visible. On the screen a fake crypto currency trading desk. ">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img src="./tv.jpg" alt="Massive TV screen at the end of a bed with the author's legs partly visible. On the screen, a fake crypto currency trading desk. ">
```

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Relaxing and watching the markets.</figcaption>
</figure>

This being about crypto, the markets can get hectic at any time. Should this happen, I can quickly

> move over to my desk where I have the said multi-screen setup. I can click on any currency's window

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
move over to my desk where I have a multi-screen setup. I can click on any currency's window
```

and quickly see the full details in a fullscreen view on the opposite screen. Below is a recent

> photo of me taken during the last [YCY bloodbath](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ)

Reviewer 2: Rick rolled!

Author: :-)

that caught me off-guard and

> [with hands on my face](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/gavon/brokers-with-hands-on-their-faces).

Reviewer 2: The grammar goes off the rails here. (Dangling preposition.) I not sure what you want to say, but I'd start by starting a new sentence with "it really caught  me off guard, and..."

Author: I have split the sentence. The meme here is brokers with faces on their hands… https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/gavon/brokers-with-hands-on-their-faces

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="./panik.jpg" alt="The author with his hands on his panicking face staring at the fake crypto currency trading desk.">

>   <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Panickingly witnessing the YCY bloodbath.</figcaption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Panicky, witnessing the YCY bloodbath.</figcaption>
```

  Screen 2 (iPad):
  availHeight: 1001
  availLeft: 1680
  availTop: 23
  availWidth: 1366
  colorDepth: 24
  height: 1024
  id: "1"
  internal: false
  left: 1680
  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 24
  primary: false
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1366
*/
```

Note how the value of `left` for the iPad starts at `1680`, which is exactly the `width` of the
built-in display. This allows me to determine exactly how the screens are arranged logically (next
to each other, on top of each other, etc.). There is also data now for each screen to show whether
it is an `internal` one and whether it is a `primary` one. Both also have an `id`, which, if
persisted across browser sessions, allows for window arrangements to be restored.

### The `onscreenschange` event

The only thing missing now is a way to detect when my screen setup changes. A new event,
`onscreenschange` (note: plural "screens"), does exactly that: it fires whenever the screen constellation
is modified. This can happen when the resolution of one of the connected screens changes or when a
new or an existing screen is (physically or virtually in the case of Sidecar) plugged in or unplugged.

> ```js
> console.log("Before:", await window.getScreens());
> window.addEventListener("screenschange", async () => {
>   console.log("After:", await window.getScreens());
> });
> ```
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Note that you need to look up the new screen details asynchronously, the `screenschange` event
itself does not provide this data. [This may change in the
future](https://github.com/webscreens/window-placement/issues/28). For now you
can look up the screen details by calling `window.getScreens()` as shown below.

```js
window.addEventListener('screenschange', async (e) => {
  console.log('I am there, but mostly useless', e);
  const details = await window.getScreens();

> });

Author: ```suggestion
});
```
```

Are you planning to use the Multi-Screen Window Placement API? Your public support helps the Chrome
team to prioritize features and shows other browser vendors how critical it is to support them.

- Share how you plan to use it on the [WICG Discourse thread][wicg-discourse]
- Send a tweet to [@ChromiumDev][cr-dev-twitter] with the `#WindowPlacement` hashtag and let us know
  where and how you are using it.
- Ask other browser vendors to implement the API.

## Helpful links {: #helpful }

- [Public explainer][explainer]
- [Multi-Screen Window Placement API demo][demo] | [Multi-Screen Window Placement API demo
  source][demo-source]
- [Chromium tracking bug][cr-bug]
- [ChromeStatus.com entry][cr-status]
- Blink Component: [`Blink>WindowDialog`][blink-component]

### Wanna go deeper {: #deeper-links }

- [TAG Review][tag-review]
- [Intent to Experiment][i2e]

## Acknowledgements

The Multi-Screen Window Placement API spec was edited by
[Victor Costan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pwnall) and
[Joshua Bell](https://www.linkedin.com/in/joshuaseanbell). The API was implemented by
[Mike Wasserman](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mike-wasserman-9900a079/). This article was reviewed by

> [Joe Medley](https://github.com/jpmedley) and [Kayce Basques](https://github.com/kaycebasques).

Author: ```suggestion
[Joe Medley](https://github.com/jpmedley),
[François Beaufort](https://github.com/beaufortfrancois),
and [Kayce Basques](https://github.com/kaycebasques).
```

  colorDepth: 30
  height: 1050
  id: "0"
  internal: true
  left: 0
  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 30
  primary: true
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1680

  Screen 2 (iPad):
  availHeight: 1001
  availLeft: 1680
  availTop: 23
  availWidth: 1366
  colorDepth: 24
  height: 1024
  id: "1"
  internal: false
  left: 1680
  orientation: null
  pixelDepth: 24
  primary: false
  scaleFactor: 2
  top: 0
  touchSupport: false
  width: 1366
*/
```

Note how the value of `left` for the iPad starts at `1680`, which is exactly the `width` of the
built-in display. This allows me to determine exactly how the screens are arranged logically (next
to each other, on top of each other, etc.). There is also data now for each screen to show whether
it is an `internal` one and whether it is a `primary` one.
Note that the built-in screen
[is not necessarily the primary screen](https://osxdaily.com/2010/04/27/set-the-primary-display-mac/#:~:text=Click%20on%20the%20Display%20icon,primary%20display%20for%20your%20Mac).
Both also have an `id`, which, if
persisted across browser sessions, allows for window arrangements to be restored.

### The `onscreenschange` event

> The only thing missing now is a way to detect when my screen setup changes. A new event,
> `onscreenschange` (note:
> [plural "screens"](https://github.com/webscreens/window-placement/issues/12)),
> does exactly that: it fires whenever the screen constellation
> is modified. This can happen when the resolution of one of the connected screens changes or when a
> new or an existing screen is (physically or virtually in the case of Sidecar) plugged in or unplugged.

Author: ```suggestion
The only thing missing now is a way to detect when my screen setup changes. A new event,
`onscreenschange`, does exactly that: it fires whenever the screen constellation
is modified.
(Notice that "screens" is plural in the event name.)
It also fires when the resolution of one of the connected screens changes or when a
new or an existing screen is (physically or virtually in the case of Sidecar) plugged in or unplugged.
```
